Inspire Talk - 10 min.

Title:

Verified Logic Circuit Simulation via TLA+ and Logic Programming.

Introduction:

This talk presents an update on the speaker's personal research into
reconfigurable hardware, and the lessons learned therefrom. Using
Lamport's Temporal Logic of Actions (TLA+) as a specification
language, and miniKanren (a Scheme logic programming EDSL) as a model
checker for TLA+ terms, the formal semantics of an exotic logic
circuit element (universal, reversible, reconfigurable, and
asynchronous) were codified, and the behavior of a software simulator
for said logic element verified. With this use-case as an example, an
overview of the process and benefits of translating informal
requirements into mathematical specifications, thence to
executable code, are demonstrated.

Takeaway:

The costs of formally specifying and verifying programs are outweighed
by their improved clarity and correctness.

Inspiration:

With the correct paradigm, code complication can be computationally
compartmentalized.

Entertainment:

Ideally, the audience will be pleasantly surprised at how fast an
apparently large (yet finite) search space can be exhausted of error,
given the correct queries.

Relevancy:

TLA+ is an academically and industrially recognized, actively
maintained tool for the specification of asynchronous, concurrent, and
distributed programs.

Benefits:

Those unfamiliar with the techniques of TLA+ program specification
will receive an introduction to the tool and its use.

Outline:

0. Salutation (30 sec.)

1. Present the "hard problem" of verifying a high-level hardware
circuit simulator behaves as expected. (2 min.)

2. Identify desired invariants, show encoding in TLA+ and their
translation to miniKanren. (5 min.)

3. Reveal the "hard problem" to be soluble through clear specification
and automated model checking, which TLA+ and logic programming
provide, respectively. (2 min.)

4. Valediction, references. (30 sec.)

Pitch:

Learn how logic shrinks problem spaces.

Code sample languages:

miniKanren, Scheme, TLA+
